# Whatis a family

Chomsky: https://www.nytimes.com/2021/04/23/opinion/ezra-klein-podcast-noam-chomsky.html?showTranscript=1

Adds

* Language
* Thought
* Creativity

Chomsky
* https://www.nytimes.com/2021/04/23/opinion/ezra-klein-podcast-noam-chomsky.html
* https://www.sunrisemovement.org/?ms=SunriseMovement-WeAreTheClimateRevolution
* https://chomsky.info/

***

---

What is a family with no children?
2021–05–09 ~ dealing with the time when everyone is grown up and lives apart
Photo by Annie Spratt on Unsplash

The first definition in the Oxford dictionary for the word "family" is:
A group of one or more parents and their children living together as a unit.
What, however, is the meaning of the word "family" if the children are all grown up and everybody lives apart?
Me being in the latter state - and perhaps due to boredom or disinterest - I ask myself: "What does Theo really want of his family?"
I love my peeps deeply. They are good and doing good things. Nonetheless, these days, I seem to have the feeling that my connection with my family is frail, of little meaning and slightly insipid.
Me being me, rather than pointing fingers and assigning blame, I would rather draft and craft the things to know, be and do with a family that might be pleasing.

---

A work-in-progress vision of a good family

Mission ~ what we do
We are technically competent ~ we are engaged with shared visions of the nicer aspects of tech used wisely
We are beautiful ~ we heart art ~ we are in touch with things beyond us
We maintain a sense of history ~ past and future ~ we invoke the spirit of clans, guilds, kibbutzim, communes and science fiction organizations
We instill a sense of agency ~ we knowingly carry out useful and purposeful things
We have huge assets - we use these wisely, nicely and generously

We are people of a family ~ we actively engage with societies of others and our own
We are smart ~ we can figure things out that helps others
	 we express thoughts using beautiful language
We are intellectuals ~ driven by science, evidence and authoritative sources
We are humble ~ We are happy being with people from all walks of life
We take pleasure ~ we are fit and delight in food and drink of all sorts
We respect nature ~ We do our best to follow the UN's 17 Sustainable Development Goals
We deal with pain and adversity
We seek justice for all
We perform ~ maybe it's dancing, or a soccer match or just a swim in the sea ~ we live in active moments
We manage ~ we initiate, design and carry out many, complex projects ~ we help wicked problems have better outcomes
We team ~ We build upon each other's skills to make the thing that is greater than its parts ~ we collaborate based on consensus and with leaders when an effort demands individual leadership
We learn ~ We are curious about other ways and finding meaning in what we do ~ we cut failures

We are creative ~ We reexamine things and see them in new light ~ we even surprise ourselves

We celebrate our outcomes ~ success and failures ~ Party time! ~
We love

And we have ongoing conversations and dialogue - oral and written - that serve to tweak and improve all of the above

Values ~ what we know about ourselves
We are something more than consumers of media who measure the passage of time by Hallmark-style Instagram moments
Vision ~ what we are meant to be
In the city on the hill, the beacon of light, we are the energizer bunny.

---

Observations on the List of Mission Statements

Categories and Organization

The list of items in the mission just seem to spring out from nowhere. There are obvious references to things like Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs.
It will be interesting to see if there are some available existing models that describe a fully-performing and fully-examined family. If so, what aspects are missing here? Even more interesting would be some finds that there have been peeps that have attempted such a challenge and - if so, were they happy?
Possibility of the Paradigm
That a group of people could ever decide or agree on achieving these stated mission statements as a totality seems impossible. Nonetheless, each item in the list came to my mind because of personal experiences I have had or have known about in some way.
Thus if each item is doable them it seems logical that the entire ensemble is doable. And the likely result would be a group of obsessive-compulsive control freaks, but nevermind
The Lesson to be Learned
I can only know all of the mission statements because I have lived a long, complex and fruitful life.
At the same time nearing the end of my life, I understand that any visions I wish to see fulfilled must be not a big reach. They must be small and doable.
Any desire to even think about building "a very good family" must be quashed. You do not expect the family come to your vision; you adjust your vision to match what is available with the people you have.
You did your best when there were children and you all lived together. That period is over. You take pleasure in observing the various outcomes - but from a non-invasive distance. You are old. The children live wherever. Meddling in their lives is likely to be bothersome for all.
The Tables have Turned
Ha ha! Now you want them to look after you! If they love you they will do so. But if you love them you will let them be free to advance their lives and careers, to be good parents themselves, to solve the problems of this world as well as you did or better.
The Vision of Being an Elder
You learn a lot being a parent. So why stop? There are plenty of people older than you that need looking after. It's babies gone backwards, The older they are the more looking after they need.
Here is the interesting aspect: every item in the list of mission statements above may be applied to a group of elders. It's a great challenge. Will you be up to it?